feat: update repo & add more links (#57)
gnolang/awesome-gno: README.md

Reviewer: maybe add status.gnoteam.com

Author: [26b7d2b](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/pull/57/commits/26b7d2bec89a8d165cc0e032c1b1e336a7b96a57)

# Awesome Gno [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

> Do you gno?

> This is the place where awesome apps, frameworks, libraries, software and resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This repository is a hub for apps, frameworks, libraries, and resources.
```

Reviewer 2: A bit more standard and also to avoid using "the place" in multiple spots.

> related to Gno & gno.land converge. The purpose of this repository is two-fold:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
related to Gno & gno.land. It serves two main purposes:
```

> 1. Firstly, it is a place for newcomers to see what is happening in gno.land, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. It’s a place for newcomers to explore what's happening on gno.land.
```

get inspiration and learn about how to become good contributors to gno.land.

> 2. Secondly, it is a place open for everyone to share their [gno.land](https://gno.land) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. It’s a space for everyone to publicly share their [gno.land](https://gno.land) projects.
```

> efforts & work, publicly. Everyone is welcome to open PRs, which will be reviewed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > All are welcome to submit PRs, which will be reviewed and merged if they add value to the resource list.
```

and merged if they benefit the resource list.

> _Some things in this repository might be outdated. We welcome any PRs that will

Reviewer 2: I think better to mention that we're actively updating with the latest resources.

Author: WDYM exactly? I think it's still good to mention that things can be outdated (as some of them are).

Reviewer 2: I suppose since we're updating them now, they should be considered 'up to date.' Those that are primarily for reference and known to be outdated can be categorized as such.

Author: [b2a1860](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/pull/57/commits/b2a1860d88319d8b19c6d9928461359dd95edb23)

add new content, update outdated content, or propose other ideas._ 

## Contents

1. [Official Links](#official-links)

> 2. [gno.land networks](#gnoland-networks)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [gno.land Networks](#gnoland-networks)
```

3. [Tools](#tools)
4. [Tutorials](#tutorials)
5. [Social](#social)
6. [Misc](#misc)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)

## Official Links

> - [gno.land](https://gno.land/) - The official website of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [gno.land](https://gno.land/) - The official website of gno.land.
```

> - [gno monorepo](https://github.com/gnolang/gno) - Main repo of the project, containing the core libraries, tools, and example Gno code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [gno monorepo](https://github.com/gnolang/gno) - The official core repo of the project, containing the core libraries, tools, and example Gno code.
```

> - [Official Documentation](https://docs.gno.land)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [docs.gno.land](https://docs.gno.land) - The official docs of gno.land.
```

> - [Master README](https://github.com/gnolang/gno#readme)

Reviewer 2: Needed?

Author: I guess not; the monorepo link leads to it anyways.

Author: Rm'd at your suggestion convo

> - [Plan](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/PLAN.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Plan](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/PLAN.md) - The foundational plan for gno.land.
```

> - [Philosophy](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/PHILOSOPHY.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Philosophy](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/PHILOSOPHY.md) - The fundamental philosophies of gno.land.
```

## gno.land Networks

_The currently active gno.land networks._

- [The Portal Loop](https://gno.land/) - A rolling testnet, serving as the gno.land homepage. Read more [here](https://docs.gno.land/concepts/portal-loop).

> - [test4.gno.land](https://test4.gno.land/) - Latest official multi-node stable testnet environment, released in July 2024.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [test4.gno.land](https://test4.gno.land/) - The latest stable testnet environment, released in July 2024. Test4 is the first multi-node testnet of gno.land.
```

> - [staging.gno.land](https://staging.gno.land/) - Staging environment, reset periodically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [staging.gno.land](https://staging.gno.land/) - A staging environment for gno.land which resets periodically.
```

## Apps

_Apps developed by the gno.land team._

> - [GnoStudio Connect](https://gno.studio/connect) - A tool that makes interaction with Gno applications simple.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gno Studio Connect](https://gno.studio/connect) - A tool that makes interaction with Gno applications simple.
```

> - [Gno Playground](https://play.gno.land/) - An online Gno editor that allows for quick testing, deploying, and sharing of Gno code, modeled after the Go Playground.

Reviewer 2: maybe list playground first

Author: [7c4dd58](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/pull/57/commits/7c4dd586399d50dece7b7acb7811bb93e8d4100e)

- [GnoChess](https://github.com/gnolang/gnochess) - A chess server implementation in Gno, complete with a frontend, faucet & tutorial to develop your own.
- [Memeland](https://github.com/gnolang/memeland) - An image sharing application built using Gno, React and Vue.
- [Gno Faucet Hub](https://faucet.gno.land) - A central place for all gno.land faucets.

## Community Apps

_Apps developed by the gno.land community._

- [Gnoswap](https://github.com/gnoswap-labs/gnoswap) - the first DEX built on gno.land (currently in beta).
- [Adena Wallet](https://adena.app/) - Friendly wallet that simplifies sending & receiving tokens, staking, NFT storage, and dapp connections.

## Tools

> - [gnodev](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/tree/master/contribs/gnodev) - Your Gno development companion, used for Gno development locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [gnodev](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/tree/master/contribs/gnodev) - Your Gno development companion, used for local Gno development.
```

- [Gno Debugger](https://gno.land/r/gnoland/blog:p/gno-debugger) - A debugger that comes packaged with the GnoVM.

> - [GnoScan](http://gnoscan.io/) - Gnoscan, a gno.land blockchain explorer, making on-chain data legible and intuitive for everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [GnoScan](http://gnoscan.io/) - A gno.land blockchain explorer, making on-chain data legible and intuitive for everyone.
```

Reviewer 2: Latter half of sentence needs fixing or can probably just remove.

- [tx-indexer](https://github.com/gnolang/tx-indexer) - A TM2 blockchain indexer with GraphQL support.

> - [Supernova](https://github.com/gnolang/supernova) - Stress testing tool for the Gno Tendermint2 blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Supernova](https://github.com/gnolang/supernova) - A stress testing tool for the Gno Tendermint2 blockchain.
```

Reviewer 2: As a user I'd probably be asking what's the difference between "gno.land" and the "gno.land tm2 blockchain".

> - [Gno Extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=harry-hov.gno) - Rich Gno support for Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 2: Instead of rich support, how about we state highlights of what's available today.

Author: [b57ddb3](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/pull/57/commits/b57ddb3d5a4d95b066c8ba345d79f7535619c194)

> - [Gno-mode for Emacs](https://gist.github.com/gfanton/6e233656dfeabd7a46f21f7507b6b311) - Major mode for editing GNO files in Emacs, based on go-mode. Work in progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gno-mode for Emacs](https://gist.github.com/gfanton/6e233656dfeabd7a46f21f7507b6b311) - Major mode for editing Gno files in Emacs, based on go-mode. Work in progress.
```

- [Gno for Sublime Text](https://github.com/jdkato/gno-sublime-text) - Gno syntax highlighting for Sublime Text.
- [:GnoFileTest command for vim](https://gist.github.com/grepsuzette/66f5cfaccc1a919c67f52bd7b31a3b09) - `:GnoFileTest` snippet for vim

## Tutorials

> - [Gno By Example](https://gno-by-example.com) - Tutorials and code snippets for learning Gno.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gno By Example](https://gno-by-example.com) - Interactive tutorials and code snippets for learning Gno through real-time examples.
```

> - [Getting Started](https://github.com/gnolang/getting-started) - Get started with your first Gno Realm easily with this repo.

Reviewer 2: Should follow the tone in the other points.

- [A gentle introduction to gno.land](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTGeG0z09NU&t=135s) - An intro presentation into gno.land (2024).
- [Gno Learn X in Y minutes](https://github.com/gnolang/devrel/blob/main/docs/learn_xy/gno.html.markdown)

> - [From Zero to gno.land Hero](https://github.com/leohhhn/gno-fzgh/blob/main/README.md) - A complete 0 to 100 tutorial on your first dApp in gno.land.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [From Zero to gno.land Hero](https://github.com/leohhhn/gno-fzgh/blob/main/README.md) - A complete 0 to 1 tutorial on building your first dApp in gno.land.
```

- [A Beginner’s Guide to the gno.land Testnet](https://medium.com/@onbloc/a-beginners-guide-to-the-gnoland-testnet-6fdc693a48f4) - A visual guide to creating a wallet and receiving $GNOTs on the testnet.
- [Gno 101](https://github.com/onbloc/gnolang-101) - A course designed for aspiring smart-contract developers on gno.land.

> - [Gno Basics](https://github.com/moul/gno-basics) - Simple examples of Gno contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gno Basics](https://github.com/moul/gno-basics) - Simple and common examples of Gno realms.
```

> - [Hello Gno!](https://github.com/xplrz/gnoland-workshop) - Step-by-step workshop to learn Gno and gno.land features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Hello Gno!](https://github.com/xplrz/gnoland-workshop) - A step-by-step workshop on Gno and gno.land's main features.
```

- [Gno Smart Contract Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BlnEXCs0eI) - A short video tutorial on writing and deploying a simple Realm and Package.

> - [Gno Chinese Station](https://www.gnoland.cn) - A website for Chinese Developers, providing tutorials, documents, and gno news.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gno Chinese Station](https://www.gnoland.cn) - A website for Chinese developers, providing tutorials, resources, and Gno news.
```

This repository is a hub for apps, frameworks, libraries, and resources.
related to Gno & gno.land. It serves two main purposes:

1. It’s a place for newcomers to explore what's happening on gno.land.
get inspiration and learn about how to become good contributors to gno.land.
2. It’s a space for everyone to publicly share their [gno.land](https://gno.land) projects.
  > All are welcome to submit PRs, which will be reviewed and merged if they add value to the resource list.
and merged if they benefit the resource list.

_Some things in this repository might be outdated. We welcome any PRs that will
add new content, update outdated content, or propose other ideas._ 

## Contents

1. [Official Links](#official-links)
2. [gno.land Networks](#gnoland-networks)
3. [Tools](#tools)
4. [Tutorials](#tutorials)
5. [Social](#social)
6. [Misc](#misc)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)

## Official Links

- [gno.land](https://gno.land/) - The official website of gno.land.
- [gno monorepo](https://github.com/gnolang/gno) - The official core repo of the project, containing the core libraries, tools, and example Gno code.
- [docs.gno.land](https://docs.gno.land) - The official docs of gno.land.

> - [Master README](https://github.com/gnolang/gno#readme)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- [The Portal Loop](https://gno.land/) - A rolling testnet, serving as the gno.land homepage. Read more [here](https://docs.gno.land/concepts/portal-loop).
- [test4.gno.land](https://test4.gno.land/) - The latest stable testnet environment, released in July 2024. Test4 is the first multi-node testnet of gno.land.
- [staging.gno.land](https://staging.gno.land/) - A staging environment for gno.land which resets periodically.

## Apps

_Apps developed by the gno.land team._

- [Gno Studio Connect](https://gno.studio/connect) - A tool that makes interaction with Gno applications simple.
- [Gno Playground](https://play.gno.land/) - An online Gno editor that allows for quick testing, deploying, and sharing of Gno code, modeled after the Go Playground.
- [GnoChess](https://github.com/gnolang/gnochess) - A chess server implementation in Gno, complete with a frontend, faucet & tutorial to develop your own.
- [Memeland](https://github.com/gnolang/memeland) - An image sharing application built using Gno, React and Vue.
- [Gno Faucet Hub](https://faucet.gno.land) - A central place for all gno.land faucets.

## Community Apps

_Apps developed by the gno.land community._

> - [Gnoswap](https://github.com/gnoswap-labs/gnoswap) - the first DEX built on gno.land (currently in beta).

Reviewer 3: Consider adding dSocial and Gno Native Kit?

Author: I wanted to invite the partners to do the addition themselves

- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@_gnoland)

## Misc

- [Branding & Assets](https://github.com/gnolang/branding) - Official logo and assets.
- [Peace](https://gno.land/r/gnoland/blog:p/peace) - A call for peace.
- [GitPOAP](https://www.gitpoap.io/gh/gnolang) - Contributors (Git) can mint POAPs.
- [Workshops & Talks](https://github.com/gnolang/workshops) - Slides, videos, and materials to gno.land workshops.
- [legacy Bounties (deprecated)](https://github.com/gnolang/bounties) - Legacy official bounty board.

## Tips & Snippets

_Note: We'd like to try a section with small tips & snippets and less curation. Please open PRs with just a link to a gist, tweet, screenshot, or discussion._

- [Tendermint2 JSON-RPC Postman Collection](https://gist.github.com/zivkovicmilos/d7b98103f0611ac3b26202a29cee02c4)
- [Goland IDE Intellisense Workaround](https://x.com/leohhhn/status/1836740567541367157) - Developing in the Gno monorepo can provide Gno Intellisense using the builtin Go language support.

## Contributing

Your contributions are always welcome! Please take a look at the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

> We will keep some pull requests open if we're not sure whether those libraries are awesome. You could [vote for them](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno/pulls) by adding :+1: to them.

Reviewer 3: What do you think about adding our event calendar link so people coming here can add all of them like office hours, spotlight, and workshops?

Author: Added the calendar!

* [Gno By Example](https://gno-by-example.com) - Tutorials and code snippets for learning Gnolang.
* [Gno Learn X in Y minutes](https://github.com/gnolang/devrel/blob/main/docs/learn_xy/gno.html.markdown)
* [Quickstart Guide](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/examples/gno.land/r/demo/boards/README.md) - How to start interacting with the blockchain.
* [From Zero to gno.land Hero](https://github.com/leohhhn/gno-fzgh/blob/main/README.md) - A complete 0 to 100 tutorial on your first dApp in gno.land.
* [A Beginner’s Guide to the gno.land Testnet](https://medium.com/@onbloc/a-beginners-guide-to-the-gnoland-testnet-6fdc693a48f4) - A visual guide to creating a wallet and receiving $GNOTs on the testnet.
* [Gnolang 101](https://github.com/onbloc/gnolang-101) - A course designed for aspiring smart-contract developers on gno.land.
* [Gnolang Basics](https://github.com/moul/gno-basics) - Simple examples of Gnolang contracts.
* [Hello Gno!](https://github.com/xplrz/gnoland-workshop) - Step-by-step workshop to learn Gnolang and gno.land features.

> * [Start Writing a Realm](https://docs.onbloc.xyz/tutorials/start-writing-a-realm)

Author: Moved it down to the archive section
